---
title: Integration Digest for June 2024
description: Integration Digest related to the latest news in API Management, iPaaS, ESB, Integration frameworks, message brokers, etc.
published-at: https://wearecommunity.io/communities/integration/articles/5205
author: Stanislav Deviatov
series: Integration Digest
issue: 2024.06
language: en
---

## Articles
🔍 [API Description Pipelines](https://lornajane.net/posts/2024/pipelines-api-descriptions)

_This blog post delves into the creation of API description pipelines, which are workflows utilized in software development to manage and monitor the performance of software applications. The author outlines potential steps in an API description pipeline, such as gathering inputs, enhancing the OpenAPI description, setting up traditional CI checks, enabling proxy behaviors, and implementing notifications for critical errors. The importance of customizing the pipeline to meet the unique needs of each organization and API project is emphasized, and tool recommendations for each step are provided._

🔍 [Architectural Patterns for Event APIs and Unified Event & API Management](https://solace.com/blog/patterns-event-apis-unified-apim/)

_This blog post explores the integration of event APIs into existing API programs and the management of the event API lifecycle. The concept of event API products, which bundle multiple APIs for specific use cases or target developer profiles, is explained. The post also outlines two approaches to providing a unified developer experience with event APIs: event-native API management and API marketplace. The importance of managing dependencies, versions, and component states in the lifecycle of event APIs is emphasized._

🔍 [Centralized Postman Workspace for API Management](https://medium.com/another-integration-blog/centralized-postman-workspace-for-api-management-7e1b12a90915)

_This blog post discusses the utilization of a centralized Postman workspace for API management in a MuleSoft development environment. The author outlines a strategy that includes the use of a single workspace for all API collections, the 'fork collection' approach for managing collections, and the categorization of collections by integration. The strategy also involves setting up collection-level authorization, externalizing URLs, and using environment variables. The benefits of this approach, including improved collaboration, efficient management, and enhanced flexibility, are highlighted._

🔍 [Git Workflows for API Technical Writers](https://bump.sh/blog/git-workflows-for-api-technical-writers)

_This blog post explores the use of Git workflows for API technical writers. The benefits of using Git, including version control, collaboration, and automation, are highlighted. The post also explores the challenges of technical writing with code-generated docs and suggests solutions such as merging improved copy into the source, using code annotations for one-time generation, and using OpenAPI specification overlays. The importance of collaboration in greenfield API design and the suggestion of keeping API documentation in a separate Git repository for flexibility and better collaboration are further discussed._

🔍 [Introduction Arazzo Specification 1.0.0](https://spec.openapis.org/arazzo/latest.html)

_The Arazzo Specification is designed to define sequences of API calls and their dependencies to achieve specific outcomes. The specification aims to enhance the capability of API descriptions by articulating these workflows in a way that is both human-readable and machine-readable. This can improve the developer experience by providing a clearer understanding of the API's functionality and the sequence of calls needed to achieve a particular goal._

🔍 [Managing standards in a developer portal - a how-to guide](https://www.getport.io/blog/managing-standards-in-a-developer-portal)

_This blog post discusses the concept of production readiness and how to manage it using a developer portal. The author defines production readiness as a process that determines the reliability requirements and levels of a specific software component operating in production. The post suggests creating service tiers based on the criticality and risk of software assets and setting appropriate standards for each tier. The author also recommends using scorecards to track the health and progress of each service and application, and automating the collection and analysis of data related to the service's health, compliance, performance, and other key metrics._

🔍 [OData vs REST: What You Need to Know](https://blog.dreamfactory.com/odata-vs-rest-what-you-need-to-know)

_This blog post discusses the differences and similarities between OData and REST, two closely related concepts used for building and consuming APIs. The author explains that while REST is an architectural style for exchanging information via the HTTP protocol, OData builds on top of REST to define best practices for building REST APIs. The post highlights the key similarities between OData and REST, including their web-based architecture, statelessness, data format flexibility, resource-oriented design, and interoperability. The key differences between OData and REST are also outlined, noting that OData offers enhanced query capabilities and standardized metadata, while REST provides simplicity, flexibility, wide adoption, and platform independence._

🔍 [Overview of Smithy, an API Description Language From Amazon](https://nordicapis.com/overview-of-smithy-an-api-description-language-from-amazon/)

_This blog post discusses Smithy, an interface description language (IDL) developed by Amazon that offers an efficient and portable model-based solution for building APIs. The author explains that Smithy works by creating models that define resources and operations, and it uses traits to allow for higher customization and constraint. The key advantages of using Smithy, including its protocol-agnostic nature, its focus on a model-driven system that allows for both machine and human readability, and its open-source status, are highlighted. However, potential drawbacks of Smithy, such as the issues associated with code generation and the potential for the tool to be too complex for simple projects, are also noted._

🔍 [The 5 Worst Anti-Patterns in API Management](https://thenewstack.io/the-5-worst-anti-patterns-in-api-management/)

_This blog post discusses the five worst anti-patterns in API management that should be avoided. These include: Monolith-Microservices, where API management is used as a shortcut to execute application code; Cart Before the Horse, where a complex API management solution is chosen without considering current needs; Good Enough as Code, where API management is partially implemented as code; Chaotic Versioning System, where there is no consistent versioning strategy for APIs; and YOLO Dependencies Management, where there is no enforced dependency management for APIs. The author suggests that avoiding these anti-patterns can lead to a more efficient and reliable API management process._

🔍 [The Benefits and Drawbacks of Adopting APIs.json](https://nordicapis.com/the-benefits-and-drawbacks-of-adopting-apis-json/)

_This blog post discusses APIs.json, a format for describing API metadata. The author explains that APIs.json works by creating models that define resources and operations, and it uses traits to allow for higher customization and constraint. The benefits of using APIs.json, such as its protocol-agnostic nature, its focus on a model-driven system that allows for both machine and human readability, and its open-source status, are highlighted. However, potential drawbacks of APIs.json, such as the lack of consensus around the standard, the limited adoption of the standard despite its capabilities, and the lack of guidance on implementing extensions, are also noted._

🔍 [The Deficient Areas of API Alignment](http://apievangelist.com/2024/06/19/the-deficient-areas-of-api-alignment/)

_This blog post discusses the challenges in aligning APIs, focusing on the deficiencies between API producers and consumers, and the business and technical aspects of APIs. The author argues that while APIs are technically well-defined using machine-readable artifacts like OpenAPI, GraphQL Schema, AsyncAPI, and JSON Schema, the business side of APIs, including onboarding, pricing, terms of service, and SLAs, is often not as well-defined or machine-readable._

🔍 [Using Backstage to Catalog Your APIs](https://nordicapis.com/using-backstage-to-catalog-your-apis/)

_This blog post discusses the use of Backstage, an open-source tool developed by Spotify, for cataloging APIs. The author explains that Backstage can serve as a centralized system for managing software components, including APIs. The post provides a step-by-step guide on how to set up Backstage as an API catalog, and highlights its potential use as a developer portal and a tool for API governance._

### Apache Kafka

🔍 [Kafka Streams Windowing: Unveiling the Mechanics](https://medium.com/@zdb.dashti/kafka-streams-windowing-unveiling-the-mechanics-5fad8c413b83)

_This blog post discusses the use of windowing in Kafka Streams, a library built on top of Apache Kafka for microservices and streaming applications. The author explains that windowing is used to segment an unbounded dataset, or "stream", to perform stateful operations like joins and aggregations on records with the same key within a specified window boundary._

### Mulesoft

🔍 [API Reusability: The Power of Effective API Governance](https://blogs.mulesoft.com/dev-guides/api-governance-and-api-reusability/)

_This blog post explains that API governance refers to applying policies, rulesets, best practices, and standards to APIs to ensure consistency and effective management, while API reusability refers to reusing APIs to save effort and speed up delivery time. The post provides a step-by-step guide on how to apply API governance in MuleSoft's Anypoint Platform._

🔍 [OpenTelemetry Exporter for Runtime Fabric Applications](https://blogs.mulesoft.com/news/opentelemetry-exporter-for-runtime-fabric/)

_This blog post announces the general availability of the Telemetry Exporter for Runtime Fabric (RTF) from MuleSoft. The Telemetry Exporter is a service based on the OpenTelemetry standard that allows for the export of real-time telemetry data to a wider observability ecosystem._

🔍 [Writing RAML Datatype like a PRO](https://medium.com/another-integration-blog/writing-raml-datatype-like-a-pro-0a741e6e36fd)

_This blog post discusses the use of the JSON to RAML Converter, a tool that allows developers to quickly and easily convert JSON examples into RAML datatypes for API documentation._

### Tyk

🔍 [Performance: Tyk is faster and more performant than Gravitee](https://tyk.io/blog/tyk-vs-gravitee-performance/)

_This blog post discusses the performance advantages of Tyk, an API gateway, over Gravitee. Key points include Tyk's use of Golang for better memory and CPU efficiency, its microservices architecture for precise resource control, and its ability to offload CPU computation of API analytics._

## Releases

🚀 [Gravitee 4.4](https://www.gravitee.io/blog/platform-update-gravitee-4.4)

_This blog post announces the 4.4 release of Gravitee, highlighting several new features and updates. Key changes include the introduction of Federated API Management, which allows centralized management of APIs from third-party gateways and event brokers._

🚀 [Insomnia 9.3 GA](https://konghq.com/blog/product-releases/insomnia-9-3-ga)

_This blog post announces the release of Insomnia 9.3, highlighting several new features and improvements. Key updates include after-response scripting, which allows users to write custom behavior before a request is sent and after a response is received._

🚀 [Kaoto v2.0](https://camel.apache.org/blog/2024/06/kaoto-release-2.0.0/)

_This blog post announces the release of Kaoto 2.0, a low-code and no-code integration designer based on Apache Camel. The author highlights several new features and improvements, including the ability to create and edit integrations visually or through direct source code access._

🚀 [Red Hat build of Apache Camel 4.4](https://developers.redhat.com/blog/2024/06/10/whats-new-red-hat-build-apache-camel-44)

_This blog post announces the release of Red Hat's Apache Camel 4.4, highlighting several new features and improvements. The author discusses the introduction of after-response scripting, which allows users to write custom behavior before a request is sent and after a response is received._
